From edo@adansonia.as.arizona.edu Thu Dec  2 03:12:26 2004
Date: Wed, 1 Dec 2004 13:27:53 -0700
From: E. Olszewski <edo@adansonia.as.arizona.edu>
To: ggwilli@adansonia.as.arizona.edu
Subject: oct3, 2004, manual words

October 3, 2004

Attempt at a new, possibly even html, manual


1) Brief description of 90prime

The SPIE paper by Grant Williams etal, which you
should read sometime, and which you should reference
as you publish 90prime data, is available
in various formats here (link to paper)

Please note that there is ZERO 90prime staff. The folks
who built 90prime and the CCD staff and the operations staff
will help you, but we hope that you'll help us to
solve problems, and we hope you'll contribute
knowledge and computer code to make data acquisition
and analysis and pipelininging more efficient or possible.

90prime is meant to be run remotely, from the control room.

a) although the operator is repsonsible for this, the observer
should be aware that the 90prime dewar is to be filled daily.
The hold time is actually 2 days, but the balance of the
telescope is thrown off if we don't add nitrogen daily.

b) Filters are not to be changed by observers, period.
Gary Rosenbaum, Bill Wood, and some others can make the requested
filter changes. Plan ahead: Bill, for instance, doesn't work
on Fridays and Saturdays.

Many of our filters reside permanently in filter holders to
minimize handling of the actual glass. 

Gary Rosenbaum is the only person (with Bill Wood in an emergency)
authorized to put filters into filter holders and remove
filters from filter holders. Observers simply are not
authorized to do this.

c) Inside the control room, the observer needs to know
how to start up the CCD computer (BokCCD2) and how to
ensure that the CCD program is happily running.

d) Most of what the observer does happens when they are sitting
at the consle of the data computer Stjukshon (to be renamed Bok
when the old Sun computer Bok is permanently turned off
and its IP address freed up).

The observer needs to know how to start the AzCam server (CCD data
taking), how to set parameters within it, and how to set
up the dataserver daemon.

The observer needs to know how to start the 90prime Instrument GUI
program, and how to manipulate filters and focus.

The observer needs to know IRAF or some such language to make
decisions about data quality.

The observer needs to know about the autoguider routines although
actual autoguiding rests largely in the hands of the telescope
operator.

The observer needs to know how to put data on tape or DVD or CD.

e) The observer needs to know that, at this moment, the only choices
for good flatfields are twilight flats or dark-sky flats.
Our current dome flats are not adequate. There are important
consequences for getting such data in bad conditions, or in trying
to use "too many filters."

f) These are thinned CCDs, so they fringe in the red. The observer
has to take adequate data to allow them to remove fringing.
At this moment, we don't know if it's possible to build up
a library of fringe frames that will work from run to run.

This manual will discuss all of these issues in detail.


2) Quick (shorthand) startup instructions for CCD computer
   and Data computer and autoguider computer

xxxxxxxx

3) CCD information

There are four Fairchild 485 CCDs in the dewar, 4096x4096 15 micron
pixels each, with approximately 1000 pixel gaps between CCDs.

Each CCD is read out through 2 amps, giving 8 total channels,
which are stored as a single FITS multi-extension file.
At this moment, we urge you to consult the NOAO IRAF MSCRED
pages/manuals, and to say "help mscguide" within IRAF
for how best to manipulate/reduce these data.

Readout time (time to put the data in memory on
the CCD computer) is 50 seconds. Additional time of about 30 seconds is
needed to de-interlace the data, to create fits, and to place it
on the data computer. So the total "readout time" is about
90 seconds. We are exploring ways to drop this time to about
70 seconds, but can think of no way to go faster except to
buy more channels for the CCD electronics.

The approximate scale is 0.45 arcsec/pixel, though at this point
the astronomer should check this number themselves.

The dewar is filled once daily, although the hold time
is about 2 days. Enough nitrogren boils off in one day
to affect the balance of the telescope.

Mike Lesser has set up the CCDs in the lab. He notes
the following characteristics (but astronomers are encouraged
to derive any of these numbers for themselves, see the link HERE):

a) photons/data-number is approximately 1.7. A file is
available HERE (and will soon be in the data header as well)
to see the numbers for each of the 8 amps.

b) Readnoise is about 12 electrons. As above, the
individual numbers for each amp are available HERE.

c) Saturation occurs at about 70k ELECTRONS.
   Actually, Chip4 saturates first, at about 60k electrons,
   so to be safe, keep your data below about 33,000 data numbers.
   (there is also a "zero level", zero plus overscan, to remember)

   You can determine for yourself if you can go above 33k DN
   if you ignore chip 4. 

d) data are linear up to saturation.

e) At the moment, we give you 20 columns of overscan
per amp. This number is easy to change, but all the consequences
of it (keywords and such) have never been tested.

f) Dewar temperature should be -187; camera temperature should
be -102.

g) Dark current is small, and was unmeasurable in the lab.


Other CCD issues

a) At the moment you cannot read out just one chip (note that
the readout time for one chip is the same as for 4). If
one-chip-read is deemed to be popular, we'll have to create special
code to do that.

b) At the moment, we do not allow region of interest readout.
There are interesting consequences for reagion-of-interest in 
multi-chip, multi-amp readouts. Mike Lesser can explain
it in more detail.

c) Yes, you can bin, it's easy to do. But all of the
display keywords will be wrong at this moment.

d) The shutter can be seen in the following DOCUMENT. It is
designed to give the identical exposure time across the field,
there is no shutter equation (but if your data depend
critically on it, talk to us). DO NOT TAKE JILLIONS
OF SHUTTER TIMING TESTS. Minimum shutter time is of order
0.1 seconds, maybe shorter.

e) There is crosstalk between amps on an individual CCD.
So you'll see a ghost image of a bright star on
the other half of the CCD. There are routines for removing
crosstalk. We do not have it well characterized at this point.



4) Filters

We reiterate what is said in section 1: NO OBSERVER MAY
CHANGE FILTERS. PLAN AHEAD. ONLY Gary Rosenbaum may
put filters into filter holders.

90prime uses 6" filters (6.0 x 6.0 inch square filters), 12mm
in thickness, 5.75" active area. This is slightly larger
than the NOAO mosaics. 

Anyone wanting to use smaller filters should see us, WELL IN ADVANCE,
for the autocad drawings for them to make filter inserts. Given
the large gap between CCDS, on must think carefully about
the positioning of undersized filters.

We currently own the following xx 6" filters, which live
permanently at 90prime, in their own named filter holders:

a) UBVRI (the Bessell prescription, with "Cousins" R and I of course)
b) SDSS u' g' r' i' z' 
c) Washington C M DDO51

[Note that Xiaohui Fan bought 4 of these filters, Olszewski
bought 4, Olszewski and Bechtold bought 1, NAU bought 1, Operations
bought 1, and the money for 2 came from xxxx]

In addition, Rogier Windhorst has loaned his set of XX BATC filters (LINK),
which are 5.75" in size. These filters live in their protective
boxes and are loaded into special 5.75" holders when needed. PLAN AHEAD.
In addition, Windhorst can choose to use the filters at some other
telescope (NOAO, Palomar, etc), so if you choose to use them,
checking with him in advance for conflicts is imperative.

Finally, there perhaps may be filters owned by individual observers
that you can borrow. 



5) Archiving data

Stjukson contains provisions for the following archiving possibilities.
Note that we DO NOT "save the bits" as an institution. It should
be the case that your data will not need to be removed right away,
but on a long 90prime run data from the beginning of the run may
need to be removed. So check your archival media at home as soon
as possible. 

There is a DAT4 drive, called /dev/st0 (regular, non-compressed)
or /dev/st0m (hardware compression). It of course senses whether
you've put a DAT4, DAT3, DAT2, or DAT1 tape in it. YOU MUST
PROVIDE YOUR OWN TAPES.

There is a DVD drive. You access the drive using the XCDROAST
program, which has a gui interface. Make sure you know how to use
XCDROAST in advance of your run. 

The drive allows the use of the following sorts of DVDr's
xxxxxxx

There is also a CD writer, but it's defunct now that stjukshon
is in the rack. We'll be buying one that allows sideways mounting.

There is also a connection for a Firewire external drive and
a USB external drive. Again, now that it's raqck mounted, getting
to the connections is hard. Jeff Rill will be providing a junction
box. 

6) Computers

BokCCD2 (the CCD computer) is a Windows PC that controls
the CCD controller. Astronomers are not to use it beyond
what's needed for observing (when all is well, you never
even look at that computer).

Stjukshon has a RAID array (software RAID) with 5 60Gig
SCSI disks... 282 Gigs useful size.

7) How to start up the needed computers and GUIs

BokCCD2 boots up running the 90prime server. As long
as it's running, you're good. If you get an error
message talking about AzCam vi's, see if BokCCD2
has hung. If you can move the cursor, you can try killing
the 90prime server and restarting it with the icon.
That often doesn't work, and you need to reboot using the
START button on the lower left. Even more extreme is a hard
reboot, done by holding in the power switch for 5 seconds till
the computer powers down, then restarting it.

Stjukshon, the Linuc PC running under Fedora, should always
be running, and should not be rebooted by anyone other
than the Computer Support Group. Besides IRAF, you need the
following:

a) 90prime instrument gui (icon on left). This controls 90prime
itself.

b) AzCam tool gui (icon on left). This controls the CCD data
taking.

c) In any terminal window type "dataserver". This brings up
a ds9 window and establishes communication with BokCCD2.
[You can then minimize that terminal window]

More information about USING these GUIs will be found below.

In addition, communication to the operator's TCS computer
(telescope control software) is done through the autoguider
computer on the operator's console. Make sure that "telcom
server" is running. The operator can set up the guider
for you.


8) Short cheat sheet on AZCAM GUI

The purpose of this section is to remind you what to do,
not to tell you in great detail how to do it.

a) In a regular window, mkdir the directory to which you want data sent.

   Then click FILENAME on the gui. It'll allow you
   to pick that directory, so that BokCCD2 can write into that
   directory on stjukshon. It'll also allow you
   to set up a root filename, add a sequence number to that name,
   and other naming things. You can also check the generic
   "test.fits" choice, and your data will be written (and overwritten)
   into that file.

b) Anything in YELLOW is changeaqble by an astronomer.
   Basically, you're concerned about Object and Exposure,
   and Title.

   Then you press EXPOSE and off you go.

c) During an exposure, hitting EXPOSE button again invokes
   a PAUSE sequence. Several options are available.

d) One of the choices for OBJECT is FOCUS. Choosing imagetype
   of FOCUS, then hitting EXPOSE, will invoke a special
   FOCUS POPUP which allows you to set those extra parameters.

e) You can also click on SEQUENCE (just to the right of FILENAME)
   for a simple observing sequence of, say, 3 identical exposures.
   [We do not yet have the equivalent of the famous 4shooter
    "dinner" command that allowed multiple sequences in different
    filters, and with differing exposure times, to be invoked.]

f) There are other useful buttons on the left side. One that
   you should know about is "INSTRUMENT". In that popup you'll
   note that there exists a filename for translation of filter
   number to filter name IN THE HEADER of the FITS file.
   "filters.txt" is the default.

g) One aspect of this GUI that is seemingly weird isw that you need to
   close any popups before exposing. Trust us on this one.  This
   differs from the other gui! [Don't ask why, it's a subtle bug of
   some sort.]

9) Cheat Sheet on 90prime Instrument GUI

   There are 4 main tabs: Focus, Filter Wheel, Guide Camera, Misc.

   Let's start with Filter Wheel Tab:
   a) Whenever filters have been changed, you need to edit
      /home/primfocus/90prime/galil/filters.txt
      This file, the same one used by the AzCam program, is
      used to allow the astronomer to see real filter names
      rather than filter numbers. [We note that filter
      numbers are encoded on the filter holders themselves
      and sensed by the software.]

   b) Hit the CONTROL button. It'll bring up a pop-up.
      You can leave this popup open forever.

   b) On power-up, you'll need to do the following in this tab:
      Initialize Filters (this allows the software to read filter numbers)

      Read filters (this tells the software the correlation between
       filter number and real filter name)

      Once you've done both of these steps, the red bar will be green
      with a filter name in it. This means that that particular
      filter is ready to be slid into the beam.

      We remind you here that choosing a filter is divided into
      two steps: rotating the wheel, and then sliding the filter
      into the beam. At some point these will be combined into
      one step.

   c) Rotating and sliding
      There are two buttons: ROTATE and SLIDE

     ROTATE is self explanatory. Watch for the little centered pop-up.

     SLIDE needs one explanation. The bar is GREEN when it's
     safe to slide in, ORANGE while the filter is sliding, and
     YELLOW when the filter is in the beam. After initializing,
     described above, any RED bar is BAD.

     If you get RED while sliding in, slide out and try again.
     If you still get RED, call Gary Rosenbaum.

 
     Now the FOCUS tab

     Start by clicking the NOMINAL PLANE button. This ensures
     that actuators A B C are set to their nominal differences,
     ie, that the CCD focal plane is perpendicular to the beam.

     Do a focus sequence. Derive the best focus. Your focus
     sequence is in STEPPER MOTOR STEPS, so you know how many
     stepper motor steps to move the focus to get best focus.
     [It's a relative number from where you are, NOT an absolute
      number.]

     Type that number in to STEPS A B C (if the LINK button
     is on, typing into B and a carriage return gives you
     A B C identically). Then hit the FOCUS button.

     So presumably,you're at good focus with the optimal
     differences between A B C maintained. Hit the SET REFERENCES
     button to remember this value.

     As the telescope moves in the sky, the instrument flexes.
     So the stepper motors flex, and you'll never know!
     We added absolute encoders, called LVDTs, to sense
     this flexure. So if your LVDT readings are different
     from what you saved by setting references, hit RESTORE
     FOCUS to unflex the instrument. RESTORE FOCUS drives
     the LVDTs to their correct value, thus overcoming the
     flexed stepper motors.


     So a typical focus and observe routine might be:
     NOMINAL PLANE, followed by a focus routine with AzCam server,
     followed by a setting of best focus using the FOCUS key,
     followed by SET REFERENCES,follwed by observing and 
     RESTORE FOCUS. We recommend RESTORE FOCUS before each
     exposure begins.


The Autoguider tab
xxxx

The MISC tab
xxxx
