You can see the optical layout at 
http://compton.as.arizona.edu/90prime/pictures/optics/optics7.gif

*  A pit in L3 is a result of a tool which was dropped on its surface: 
	"It is a hole in the glass that happened during fabrication.
It was probably the pin slipping out of the tooling and impacting the
surface.  The hole is about 1.75" from the edge, 3/32" across and
1/32" deep.  It appears to have been drilled out after the damage
occured."

*  A chip on the edge of L2 is a result of handling: 
	"I have evaluated the chip in L2 and recommend that we proceed
with the part, then paint the area black before installing the lens.
The chip is big and ugly, but the area it extends into the clear
aperture is only about 8 mm across.  The beam is 200 mm across here,
so worst case, it affects 0.16%.
	In fact, we can do much better then this.  If we clock the
chip so that it is oriented along the sides (not the corners) of the
filters and the CCD, then it will never be seen by the focal plane.
We do need to make sure that we do NOT put it on the side of the guider."

*  A pit on L2 is a result of a pin which was dropped on its surface:
	"This morning it was reported that  we suffered additional
damage on the L2 spherical surface.  This time it was Dean and he
pinged the surface with the drive pin while adjusting it for a
polishing run.  It is a small (~1mm diam) on the surface near the
center.  It has also a typical conical fracture that extends into the
depth of the glass probably more than a mm but is difficult to
quantify since the fracture edge is not easily seen.
	Jim was over here this morning and he and I examined it
closely.  Jim's opinion is that the defect itself is small enough to
ignore.  Typically, we would grind out the fracture as we did for L3
but I am reluctant to carve a hole in the surface since it will
increase the size of the unusable area.  We were concerned over the
possibility that the fracture may propagate so we looked at it under
crossed polarizers and can detect virtually no stress birefringence.
So it is unlikely that the fracture will propagate.  However, if the
coating temperature is very high it may make the fracture move.
	Jim suggested I speak with the coating vendor to determine what
the optic will be subjected to in coating so I would like the contact
information for the coater from you along with some way to identify the
coating to the vendor so he knows which one I'm talking about."
